Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to finish our quiz block type, let's jump right into the action.
Let's begin by letting the owner of the site choose the text alignment for our block type.
So perhaps instead of aligning it to the left, they would want it to be center aligned or right aligned.
So on the admin side of things, you would control this once you click onto the block?
Well, you see, this menu appears right above it.
So we just want a text alignment option right in here to make this happen.
Let's jump into our text editor within our Sarsae folder, jump into indexed JS, write the admin or
editor copy of our component.
Now, up towards the top on this line, when we're importing from WordPress block editor, I want you
to add two more things that we're importing.
So maybe a comma right here.
Let's import block controls, comma and also import alignment toolbar.
OK, now, before we go leverage these, let's first add a new attribute that will store in the database,
right, if you want, left, center or right.
So if we scroll down just a little bit inside our register block type call, we have our attributes
right after B.G. color.
Let's just say comma.
You make up any name you want.
I'll use the alignment column, give it an object.
Let's set the type to be string comma and let's set the default to be left.
OK, now watch how easy it is to actually add this down in our JS acts within our overall div, maybe
just right above inspector controls.
So right about here, let's just say block controls and then hit tab inside the opening and closing
tags.
Let's drop down and then let's have a self-closing tag called Alignment Toolbar.
So self-closing just like this.
And now we just give it a couple of props.
So let's say value equals curly brackets and we would just pull in that attribute.
So props, dot attributes dot the alignment.
And then we also want to tell it what to do each time it changes.
So on change equals curly brackets.
Let's just give it an six arrow function.
So X as our one parameter arrow symbol, we don't need curly brackets for just one statement and let's
say props, dot set attributes, parentheses to call it.
We give that an object.
The name of the attribute we want to change is the alignment.
It helps if you spell it correctly, the alignment colon and we we just set that to X. So whatever the
current value is just changed to.
So to review, just like in the last lesson, how we added inspector controls and that controls the
right hand side.
Well, we can add bloc controls and that will appear in sort of the inline toolbar that appears right
over the content.
So if we save this and refresh the edit screen.
If we actually click on our block type, cool, there is the alignment icon and if I click on it and
set it to align center.
And click update, let's refresh and see if that was actually remembered or stored, so if we go back
and check the icon, you can see it was remembered cool.
Now, I don't think we should actually change the text alignment on this edit admin copy.
I think these text fields will look a bit awkward if we did that.
But let's go actually use that alignment value on the front end.
Right.
So to do that, we would just open up.
We look in our Sarsae folder, we would open up front end gess.
So down when we're returning the parentheses with multiline joysticks, we have our opening div tag.
We already gave it a style prop inside this object.
Let's just give it another prop..
So right after B.G. color here, I would just say comma and in real access it would be text dash a line.
But this is JavaScript pretending to be access.
So it would be text uppercase A..
A line like this colon and then it would just be props.
Dot the alignment.
Give that a save if we refresh the front end.
Perfect center aligned now.
Yes, this was just one simple example of working with this toolbar, but this chapter isn't meant to
be an exhaustive Wikipedia type of resource.
So from here you can look through the official WordPress documentation.
And if there's something super specific that you want to set up, this should point you in the right
direction.
But our chapter here did give you the general idea of how you work with this menu.
OK, now, before we bring this lesson to a close, there are just a couple more small details I do
want to set up.
So first of all, instead of using the inline block insert tool right here, if instead we use this
tool up here, Adblock, well, you'll notice that if you hover over our block type, it says no preview
available.
However, if we hover over one of the default block types, you can see those do have a preview.
Now, luckily, it's very easy to add a preview to our block type.
All we need to do is jump into our index file.
And when we're calling the register block type function, where we're giving it a title icon category
and attributes write and edit and save, we just give it another property called example and that's
it.
WordPress will do the rest.
So if we just write here, maybe after attributes, comma, if we say a new top level property called
example Colon, and then you just give it an object.
So curly brackets, be sure to have a comma after that.
So our properties down below work.
But inside this object, you're just going to give it a property of attributes, colon and then you
would just give it an object, just like we did when we're actually defining sort of the hollowed out
structure.
Only in this object you're actually providing example values for each property.
So I won't bore you by typing this out.
But let me just paste this in as a quick reference.
So if you want to pause the video and type this out, you can, but.
Right.
It's just an object with the exact same attributes.
But you give a placeholder example values.
So if I save this and refresh now, if I use this tool, if I hover over, are you paying attention?
Cool.
We have a real time preview.
I think this is really neat.
So it's not a punchier JPEG.
Screenshot WordPress and react or actually in real time creating what it would look like if you used
these values.
So it's actually rendering our code RSX with those values in place.
I think that's super cool.
OK, the other detail that I wanted to show you is once you actually click on our block type and you
have the right hand side bar open, a lot of blocks will offer a description of the block here.
Now, you don't need to include this, but if you wanted to back in our code, you would just provide
another top level property called description colon and then just give it a string of text.
Be sure to end with a comma here.
So, for example, if I just paste in this string of text and refresh now when I actually click on the
block type, you see that little bit of description text right here.
OK, and that is going to bring this lesson and this block type to a close.
Where do we go from here?
Well, in our very next lesson, let me show you the sneak preview.
We're going to begin working on the featured Professor Block type.
This block type is perhaps less about react and client side JavaScript and more about really getting
custom behavior with metadata and creating relationships between different pieces of content.
I had a lot of fun building this block type because it really merges together both the front end and
the back end of WordPress.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.